Add extension guides to terraform provider (#590)
nitrictech/docs: src/pages/guides/terraform/s3-replicate.mdx

export const description =
  'Extend the Nitric AWS S3 Terraform provider to replicate your S3 bucket'

# Replicate S3 buckets into another region

Setting up S3 bucket replication is a key method to achieve global buckets, allowing your data to be available across multiple regions.

When you replicate your S3 buckets, you continue to interact with your source bucket in its specific region.

<Note>
  Replication in Amazon S3 does incur costs. Amazon S3 offers pricing details on

>   their [official pricing page](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/pricing/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  their [pricing page](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/pricing/).
```

</Note>

## What we'll be doing

> By following this guide, you will achieve multi-region replication of your S3 bucket, enhancing data availability, durability, and disaster recovery capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By following this guide you will achieve multi-region replication for all S3 buckets in your stack, enhancing data availability, durability, and disaster recovery capabilities.
```

> 1. Review our existing module
> 2. Create a Destination Bucket
> 3. Create IAM Role and Policies for Replication
> 4. Set Up Replication Configuration for S3 Bucket

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Review the existing module
2. Add a destination bucket to the module
3. Configure IAM to allow replication
4. Set up replication to the destination bucket
```

> ## Review our existing module

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Review the existing module
```

> The first step is clone the [Nitric repository](https://github.com/nitrictech/nitric) and examine how the [Nitric Terrraform provider provisions an S3](https://github.com/nitrictech/nitric/tree/main/cloud/aws/deploytf/.nitric/modules/bucket) bucket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start by cloning the [Nitric repository](https://github.com/nitrictech/nitric), then examine how the Terrraform provider [provisions an S3 bucket](https://github.com/nitrictech/nitric/tree/main/cloud/aws/deploytf/.nitric/modules/bucket).
```

```bash
git clone https://github.com/nitrictech/nitric
cd nitric
```

The AWS S3 module in the default Terraform provider performs the following tasks:

> 1. Creates a unique ID for the S3 bucket to ensure unique naming.
> 2. Provisions an S3 bucket with a unique name using the generated ID.
> 3. Tags the bucket for identification.
> 4. Grants S3 permission to invoke specified Lambda functions.
> 5. Configures S3 bucket notifications to trigger Lambda functions based on specified events using dynamic blocks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Creates a unique ID for each S3 bucket to ensure unique naming.
2. Provisions each bucket with a unique name using the generated ID.
3. Tags buckets for identification.
4. Grants S3 permission to invoke specified Lambda functions.
5. Configures S3 bucket notifications to trigger Lambda functions based on specified events using dynamic blocks.
```

To begin our customization, we will start adding configuration to this module.

> ## Create a Destination Bucket

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add a destination bucket to the module
```

> Introduce a new variable into the aws/deploytf/.nitric/modules/bucket/variables.tf:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Introduce a new variable into aws/deploytf/.nitric/modules/bucket/variables.tf:
```

> ```hcl

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```hcl {{ tag:'aws/deploytf/.nitric/modules/bucket/variables.tf' }}
```

variable "replication_region" {
  description = "The AWS region for the replication bucket"
  type        = string
  default     = "us-west-2"
}
```

> Now we can edit our bucket/main.tf file and introduce a provider for the replication region:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we can edit `bucket/main.tf` and introduce a provider for the replication region:
```

> ```hcl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```hcl {{ tag:'aws/deploytf/.nitric/modules/bucket/main.tf' }}
```

provider "aws" {
  alias  = "replication"
  region = var.replication_region

  endpoints {
    s3 = "https://s3.${var.replication_region}.amazonaws.com"
  }
}
```

Then we can create our new destination bucket:

> ```hcl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```hcl {{ tag:'aws/deploytf/.nitric/modules/bucket/main.tf' }}
```

resource "random_id" "destination_bucket_id" {
  byte_length = 8
}

resource "aws_s3_bucket" "destination" {
  bucket = "tf-destination-bucket-${random_id.destination_bucket_id.hex}"
  tags = {
    "x-nitric-${var.stack_id}-name" = "tf-destination-bucket-${random_id.destination_bucket_id.hex}"
    "x-nitric-${var.stack_id}-type" = "bucket"
  }
  provider = aws.replication
}
```

And enable versioning for both source and destination:

> ```hcl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```hcl {{ tag:'aws/deploytf/.nitric/modules/bucket/main.tf' }}
```

resource "aws_s3_bucket_versioning" "destination" {
  bucket = aws_s3_bucket.destination.id
  versioning_configuration {
    status = "Enabled"
  }
  provider = aws.replication
}

resource "aws_s3_bucket_versioning" "source" {
  bucket = aws_s3_bucket.bucket.id
  versioning_configuration {
    status = "Enabled"
  }
}
```

> ## Create IAM Role and Policies for Replication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure IAM to allow replication
```

First, we need to set up an IAM policy document detailing permissions needed for S3 replication.

<Note>
  Full documentation can be found on the [Terraform
  registry](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/s3_bucket_replication_configuration).
</Note>

> ```hcl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```hcl {{ tag:'aws/deploytf/.nitric/modules/bucket/main.tf' }}
```

  byte_length = 8
}

resource "aws_iam_role" "replication" {
  name               = "tf-iam-role-replication-${random_id.iam_role_id.hex}"
  assume_role_policy = data.aws_iam_policy_document.assume_role.json
}

data "aws_iam_policy_document" "replication" {
  statement {
    effect = "Allow"

    actions = [
      "s3:GetReplicationConfiguration",
      "s3:ListBucket",
    ]

    resources = [aws_s3_bucket.bucket.arn]
  }

  statement {
    effect = "Allow"

    actions = [
      "s3:GetObjectVersionForReplication",
      "s3:GetObjectVersionAcl",
      "s3:GetObjectVersionTagging",
    ]

    resources = ["${aws_s3_bucket.bucket.arn}/*"]
  }

  statement {
    effect = "Allow"

    actions = [
      "s3:ReplicateObject",
      "s3:ReplicateDelete",
      "s3:ReplicateTags",
    ]

    resources = ["${aws_s3_bucket.destination.arn}/*"]
  }
}

resource "aws_iam_policy" "replication" {
  name   = "tf-iam-role-policy-replication-${random_id.iam_role_id.hex}"
  policy = data.aws_iam_policy_document.replication.json
}

resource "aws_iam_role_policy_attachment" "replication" {
  role       = aws_iam_role.replication.name
  policy_arn = aws_iam_policy.replication.arn
}
```

> ## Set Up Replication Configuration for S3 Bucket

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set up replication to the destination bucket
```

> Next, we set up the replication configuration for our bucket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we set up the replication configuration for the original bucket in the module.
```

<Note>
  As per the documentation, this config includes a filter so that only objects
  prefixed with "foo" will be replicated.
</Note>

> ```hcl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```hcl {{ tag:'aws/deploytf/.nitric/modules/bucket/main.tf' }}
```

resource "aws_s3_bucket_replication_configuration" "replication" {
  depends_on = [
    aws_s3_bucket_versioning.destination,
    aws_s3_bucket_versioning.source
  ]

  role   = aws_iam_role.replication.arn
  bucket = aws_s3_bucket.bucket.id

  rule {
    id = "s3-replication-rule-${random_id.bucket_id.hex}"

    filter {
      prefix = "foo"
    }

    status = "Enabled"

    destination {
      bucket        = aws_s3_bucket.destination.arn
      storage_class = "STANDARD"
    }

    delete_marker_replication {
      status = "Enabled" # or "Disabled" based on your requirements
    }
  }
}
```

## Building and using your updated provider

> The Nitric project includes a make file that will build and install your provider as nitric/awstf@0.0.1 by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Nitric project includes a make file that will build and install your provider as `nitric/awstf@0.0.1` by default.
```

> Run `make install` from the provider's root directory - `nitric/cloud/aws`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to `nitric/cloud/aws` and run `make install` to build and install the modified provider binary.
	
```bash
cd nitric/cloud/aws

make install
```
```

The provider can then be used directly in your project's stack file as follows.

```yaml
# The nitric provider to use
provider: nitric/awstf@0.0.1

# The target aws region to deploy to
region: us-east-2
```

<Note>
  If you don't have a stack file use the `nitric stack new` to create one.
</Note>

You'll also need to enable `beta-providers` in your Nitric project by adding the following to your project's nitric.yaml file:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``` yaml {{ tag: 'nitric.yaml' }} 
```

preview:
  - beta-providers
```

> You can generate the Terraform code by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can generate the Terraform project as usual by running the `nitric up` command:
```

```bash
nitric up
```

To deploy the application using Terraform, you can navigate into your Terraform stack directory and use the standard Terraform commands:

```bash
terraform init
terraform plan
terraform apply
```

You can examine your configuration by logging into the AWS console.

> <img

Reviewer 2: Is there a link to the aws console we can provide (probably on us-east-2)?

  policy = data.aws_iam_policy_document.replication.json
}

resource "aws_iam_role_policy_attachment" "replication" {
  role       = aws_iam_role.replication.name
  policy_arn = aws_iam_policy.replication.arn
}
```

## Set up replication to the destination bucket

Next, we set up the replication configuration for the original bucket in the module.

<Note>
  As per the documentation, this config includes a filter so that only objects
  prefixed with "foo" will be replicated.
</Note>

```hcl {{ tag:'aws/deploytf/.nitric/modules/bucket/main.tf' }}
resource "aws_s3_bucket_replication_configuration" "replication" {
  depends_on = [
    aws_s3_bucket_versioning.destination,
    aws_s3_bucket_versioning.source
  ]

  role   = aws_iam_role.replication.arn
  bucket = aws_s3_bucket.bucket.id

  rule {
    id = "s3-replication-rule-${random_id.bucket_id.hex}"

    filter {
      prefix = "foo"
    }

    status = "Enabled"

    destination {
      bucket        = aws_s3_bucket.destination.arn
      storage_class = "STANDARD"
    }

    delete_marker_replication {
      status = "Enabled" # or "Disabled" based on your requirements
    }
  }
}
```

> ## Building and using your updated provider

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Build and use your updated provider
```

The Nitric project includes a make file that will build and install your provider as `nitric/awstf@0.0.1` by default.

Navigate to `nitric/cloud/aws` and run `make install` to build and install the modified provider binary.

```bash
cd nitric/cloud/aws

make install
```

The provider can then be used directly in your project's stack file as follows.

```yaml
# The nitric provider to use
provider: nitric/awstf@0.0.1

# The target aws region to deploy to
region: us-east-2
```

<Note>

>   If you don't have a stack file use the `nitric stack new` to create one.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  If you don't have a stack file use `nitric stack new` to create one.
```

</Note>

> You'll also need to enable `beta-providers` in your Nitric project by adding the following to your project's nitric.yaml file:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Because the [Terraform providers](https://nitric.io/docs/reference/providers/terraform) are in preview, you'll also need to enable `beta-providers` in your Nitric project by adding the following to your project's nitric.yaml file:
```

> Because the [Terraform providers](https://nitric.io/docs/reference/providers/terraform) are in preview, you'll also need to enable `beta-providers` in your Nitric project by adding the following to your project's nitric.yaml file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because the [Terraform providers](/reference/providers/terraform) are in preview, you'll also need to enable `beta-providers` in your Nitric project by adding the following to your project's nitric.yaml file:
```
